# API Documentation
The main purpose of the entire Django application is to expose APIs. Almost every feature of the system
is controlled through APIs (the UI uses it extensively). Hence, it's very important to be familiar with
the API endpoints, what they do and how do they work. In this section we will provide 2 different
documentations that can be used by developers or external clients (external devs) who want to utilize
the API from their 3rd party application.

## Public API Documentation

`URL: GET /api/docs/`

Serves as the number one source for external clients who want to use the API for both fetching projects (initiatives) 
or creating them.

### Access for external parties
Access can be given through the Django Admin interface. The `Auth token > Tokens` section can be used to add 
new tokens. Every token must be associated with a user object, so any new client must also have a new user.
These user accounts however can only be applicable to be used with the API if there is no password set to them.
That ensures that the UI and rest login API won't be able to authenticate that user, but the newly added
non-expiring token can be used in the Authorization header for the purpose of the API calls.

### Adding APIs to docs
Below you can find an example definition for the API Info, API URL Patterns and API Schema View for OpenAPI.
To include a new API in the documentation, one can add a new rest framework router url or a django path to the
`api_info_urlpatterns` list.
```python
# tiip/urls.py
from django.urls import path
from django.conf.urls import include
from django.conf import settings
from drf_yasg import openapi
from drf_yasg.views import get_schema_view
from rest_framework import permissions


api_info = openapi.Info(
    title='title',
    default_version='v1',
    description='desecription',
    contact=openapi.Contact(email=settings.API_MAINTAINER),
)
api_info_urlpatterns = [
    path("api/", include("search.urls")),
]
api_schema_view = get_schema_view(
    api_info,
    public=True,
    permission_classes=(permissions.AllowAny,),
    patterns=api_info_urlpatterns,
)
```

### Themes
This API is generated by OpenAPI spec and can be themed through settings.
The current default theme is [Redoc](https://github.com/Redocly/redoc), but [Swagger](https://swagger.io/) can also be used.
```python
# tiip/urls.py
path('api/docs/', api_schema_view.with_ui('redoc', cache_timeout=0), name='schema-redoc')
```

## Private / DEV only API Documentation

`URL: GET /api/devdocs/`

Currently, only reachable if `settings.DEBUG=True`. Lists all APIs of the system and what the frontend uses throughout
the whole application. 
